ï¿­ SquareÂ²
=========

ðŸ‘“ **That's a seriously untrendy verbâ„¢**

    "De-trending Kepler light curves in style."

Installation
------------

**Square** depends on ``numpy`` and ``scipy`` so make sure that you install
those first. You'll also need a proper Fortran compiler (say ``gfortran``) so
have one of those too. Then, you can install using ``pip``:

::

    pip install square

Usage
-----

**Square** is really complicated. It has *one* function and about *200 lines
of code (including documentation)*. It mostly runs on love and magic (more
complete details `are available <http://dan.iel.fm/square>`_ if you want).

Let's say that you have a light curve with time samples ``t``, flux
measurements ``f`` and uncertainties ``sigma``. You can simply run:

::

    import square
    f_detrend, sigma_detrend = square.detrend(t, f, sigma)

to find a robust estimate of the global trends of the time series and remove
it. The default settings are tuned to work well for finding the
"out-of-transit" trends in Kepler data but a detailed description of the
options is given in `the documentation <http://dan.iel.fm/square>`_. You can
also just fit for the trends and get a callable representation of the trend:

::

    trend = square.fit_trend(t, f, ferr)

In this case, you can find the background level at some time ``t0`` by calling
the function:

::

    bkg = trend(t0)

Command Line Interface
----------------------

There is also the option of using **Square** from the command line if you
don't want to bother with all the Python stuff. If you have a whitespace
separated ASCII file containing your light curve, you can de-trend it by
running:

::

    square /path/to/data.txt

The code will assume that your file has 2 or 3 columns with time, flux and
(optionally) uncertainties for each observation. Then, the de-trended light
curve will be written to standard out in the same format. Alternatively, the
same program can read the data right from standard in:

::

    cat /path/to/data.txt | square

This gives you the option of doing something crazy and then piping it all
UNIX-like. Personally, I would just use Python.

Notes
-----

1. The spline sometimes goes to hell in regions where you don't have any
   samples so be careful with that.
2. This whole procedure introduces correlated errors. You've been warned.

License
-------

Copyright 2013 Dan Foreman-Mackey & contributors.

Bart is free software made available under the MIT License. For details see
`the LICENSE file <https://raw.github.com/dfm/square/master/LICENSE.rst>`_.
